The Joe Rogan experience.
I guess we should start off with, um, what made you write this book?
What was the motivation for doing this? Yeah.
So I'm a, I'm a philosopher by training, um,
and philosophers have always been kind of really eager to, to invest,
to test ideas and try to weed out weed out the bad ones. That's,
that's kinda what we philosophers do.
And a lot of times that doesn't make us particularly popular. Um,
but I argue in the book that the philosophical method of bullet belief testing
called SETA Socratic method, right?
Famous process pioneered by a Greek philosopher thousands of years ago.
Basically if you test ideas with questions and then toss out the ones that don't
withstand scrutiny,
that's a way to strengthen your mind's resistance to bad ideas.
Um, so, so here's the, here's the kind of the skinny on this.
And I think that the people who get this concept are going to be the thought
leaders of the next few decades. Um,
we know our bodies have immune systems and their job is to hunt down
parasites and pathogens and eliminate them.
And some of those antibodies actually consume
pathogens in our body. Now, the new information,
which is just now coming together in salt,
in philosophy and in the sciences is that our minds have immune systems,
just like our bodies do only a mental immune system.
His job is to hunt down and remove mind parasites
or bad ideas.
Never seen you speechless before.
I'm not speechless. I just didn't know if you were done with your sentence.
I understand that the mind parasites can
ruin your mind and that these, uh,
the concept of mental immunity of some, some sort of mental immune system,
but like what, what kind of mental immune system are you talking about?
Are you talking about meditation? Are you talking about, uh,
a specific way of addressing issues and problems and how do you factor in things
like emotions?
Yeah. So let me start simple with a little thought experiment.
Maybe play along with me here. So this is kind of a story.
So imagine we are sitting around a bonfire,
tossing back a few beers. Okay. And I say, Hey, Joe reached into the fire there,
grabbed me one of those hot coals and hand it to me. What do you say?
I say, I'm not really interested in doing that, Andy.
Okay, good. And, and what, what, what, what,
what went on in your head that made you say.
That? Uh, it seems like I'd get injured doing that. Yeah. Yeah.
So you ran a little simulation in your mind and you concluded that
that would be harmful. Yes. Right. That was your mind immune system at work.
That simulation run. So basically I was serving up an idea, a suggestion, Hey,
Joe, do this for me. You a little simulation in your mind,
you identified that idea as a bad one. You,
your mind's immune system was strong enough and well-functioning enough to spot
this bad idea and you came out, you, Andy, reach into the fire and.
Go that hard. And that's true.
I'm just trying to, I'm just trying to think, try to speak.
Is that my language? Okay. I might say that if we're in front of the fire,
honestly, I mean, be like, Hey man, you. Um, but yeah, I see,
I see what you're saying. So, but how do you,
but it seems a little bit more complicated when you're addressing ideas,
because one of the problems with these ideas is, uh,
some of them were very attractive. Yes. You know,
like I was watching the dumbest video yesterday where
people were thinking that when they're getting the, uh, COVID vaccine,
that they're getting microchipped and they're approving it with magnets,
they were sticking magnets on themselves.
And the magnets were clinging to the area where they got the COVID shot.
And they were from this, they were.
Concluding that you're getting microchipped and then somehow, or another,
this magnet was being held in place. So I.
Take it. You would call it, you would think of that as a mine parasite.
I don't know what that is. I mean, I think it's a, it's either a hoax or.
How about a conspiracy theory? Can we go there?
So let me tell you a second story. So our first example, there was a, uh,
of your mind mental immune system functioning properly to spot a bad idea and
say, Nope, you're not welcome here. Right, right.
Now let's take an example of a mental immune system misfiring. Okay. All right.
So, um, this is a story about Fred, the flat earth.
So Fred dies. He goes to heaven. St. Peter meets me at the pearly gates.
He says, come on in Fred, you're our lucky customer number 100.
You get a chance to chat with God. Wow.
So Fred marches right in to God's inner sanctum and says,
so God, I've been a conspiracy theorist, my whole life, a flat earth,
or my whole life I got to know, is the world flat?
Or is it round God shakes?
His head does a face Palm and says, I'm sorry to say Fred,
but the world is very round Fred's face register shock,
and then recognition. And he said,
this conspiracy theory goes higher than I thought.
Ah, ah,
That's probably exactly what they would do too well. And especially.
The flat earth or well, and what does this joke,
tell us about the conspiracy mentality, right.
And you say that's exactly what it would do because I think you understand
something about conspiracy thinking,
which is that a conspiracy theory infected mind becomes
so good at generating antibodies to fight back against
even good information that it'll,
that those antibodies will attack the good information.
So here's God telling you the truth right. In your mind. And,
and Fred's mental antibodies just rush in and add,
dismiss it as part of a even deeper conspiracy that that's.
So, so questions, doubts, suspicions. Those are the mines,
the mines antibodies, all right. And they can go nuts. They can,
they can go on hyper active, um,
in the same way that the body's immune system can go haywire and attack your
body itself.
Your mind's immune system can go haywire and your questions and your doubts and
your suspicions can attack your mind. Okay.
Um, um, I think one of the problems with, uh,
conspiracy theories and people that believe, uh,
foolish things is that they don't really seek the truth.
They seek something that confirms what they want to be true,
and they ignore things to the contrary.
And there's even a word,
psychologists have a word for this called confirmation bias. Right.
I'm sure you've heard of it. Um, yeah, it, it feels good to be validated.
And so a lot of times we come to a belief that makes us comfortable.
That feels good to us. And then we just seek out information that confirms it,
but we actually dismiss or ignore or, uh,
diminish anything that might conflict with it.
But the problem is that'll send you down a rabbit hole.
Oh yeah. Catch new episodes of the Joe Rogan experience for free.
Only on Spotify.
Watch back catalog J R E videos on Spotify,
including clips easily seamlessly switch between video
and audio experience on Spotify.
You can listen to the JRE in the background while using other apps and can
download episodes to save on data costs. All for free.
Spotify is absolutely free.
You don't have to have a premium account to watch new JRE episodes.
You just need to search for the JRE on your Spotify app.
Go to Spotify now to get this full episode of the Joe Rogan expense.